																TORRENTS


			The oncoming of the internet made the connectivity between different parts of the world, it also brought about the idea of sharing data. The 70's to 90's saw the rise of decentralization in filesharing. It started with the Bulletin Board System and saw the increased use of the term Shareware, then came Usenet or Newsgroups all of which made filesharing a much easier and a decentralized task.

			The music was not left behind. We all have heard of Napster which made people go crazy in the 90's. It allowed songs to be shared among scores of people at the click of a button. It also caused artists to lose business since people were getting songs for free on the internet. It used  peer to peer system strictly for sharing mp3 files. But Napsters' database was centrally located which eventually led to its demise, but Napster had already spread the idea of peer to peer sharing among the masses.

			Thus, peer to peer sharing became a new fad and many new softwares came up with new uses with this technology including BitTorrent which was created by Bram Cohen in 2001.
			What made BitTorrent great was that it put all the greatest properties of it's predecessors and put it onto one easy to use patform. It used the concept of breaking files into smaller pieces and decentralized peer to peer distribution. After a few more years, several more advancements made it a mainstream technology and led to the creation of trackerless "Torrents". A new much smaller platform called utorrent was intoduced which gained immense popularity and is used by millions across the world today. 
			Kickass Torrents, The Pirate Bay, RARBG, EZTV, Torrentz are some of the websites and many of you readers might have grown up using. Basically, torrents are powered by the number of people downloading and uploading a file. Seeders are stations which have completed the download and are powering your download. And leechers are the number of people still downloading the file. This mechanism was abstract to a non tech savvy user and made downloading at the click of a button as easy as searching for something on Google. Torrents saw their highest use in the years of 2013-2015 as their popularity only increased over the already existing millions.

			Torrents by their nature are just sharing the files on someone else's PC, but this loophole allowed people to pirate premium content of many business'. The Music/TV Show/Movie you downloaded yesterday was downloaded by millions of others which meant that the people who were making these TV Shows/Movies etc were potentially losing millions of customers. The legality of sharing Copyrighted Content and Products using torrents has been a hot topic for debate in the past few years with many celebreties going as far as calling torrent users "thieves". Over the past 10 years several people belonging to BitTorrent and its subsidiaries have been arrested for Copyrigt Infringement and it was for this reason that 2016 saw a hunt for torrent sites by legal authorities. Mnay big names in the business like KickAss Torrents, Torrenz etc were shut down with the charge of Copyright Infringement and in India's Copyright Act was also implemented aimed at the users who would download illegal content with a warning of upto 3 years in Jail.


			CONCLUSION

			Well Torrents have seen their ups and downs. The word torrent has become a very common term in the world which is a proof of its immesnse popularity. But is it dead? The answer is a resounding NO. Though many torrenting websites were shut down , many more are resurfacing in their place. Torrent downloads are still flourishing and it doesn't look like it will reduce anytime soon. The laws on downloading Copyrighted content however have become very strict, so as a peer I am obligated to ask you not to download such content. I'd like to end this article by asking you to go ahead and and download using torrents , but also to do so responsibly.
